chore(docs): Add sourcing-from-forestry doc page (#18426)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/sourcing-from-forestry.md

### Settings Configuration

Open `.forestry/settings.yml`. You will see the following default configuration values:

```yaml:title=.forestry/settings.yml
---
new_page_extension: md
auto_deploy: false
admin_path: /static/admin
webhook_url:
sections:
upload_dir: uploads
public_path: "/uploads"
front_matter_path: ""
use_front_matter_path: false
file_template: ":filename:"
build:
  preview_output_directory: public
  install_dependencies_command: npm install
  preview_docker_image: node:10
  mount_path: "/srv"
  working_dir: "/srv"
  instant_preview_command: npm run forestry:preview
```

The `new_page_extension` setting can either be `md` or `html`.

Change `upload_dir` and `public path`:

```yaml:title=.forestry/settings.yml
upload_dir: static/uploads
public_path: "/static/uploads"
```

This sets where media is saved. Visit Gatsby's [guide on its static folder](/docs/static-folder/) to learn more. The rest of the settings can remain the same.

> Open `package.json` and add the following to scripts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open `package.json` and add the following to scripts already available:
```

use_front_matter_path: false
file_template: ":filename:"
build:
  preview_output_directory: public
  install_dependencies_command: npm install
  preview_docker_image: node:10
  mount_path: "/srv"
  working_dir: "/srv"
  instant_preview_command: npm run forestry:preview
sections:
- type: directory
  path: src/content/posts
  label: Posts
  create: documents
  match: "**/*"
  templates:
  - blog
```

Because Forestry's `admin.html` file is in the `/static` directory, this page will only be available once your Gatsby site is built. Run `gatsby build && gatsby serve`. Once the server is running, it will print the address to open for viewing. It's typically localhost:8000. Now navigate to /admin - so if your site is at localhost:8000, go to localhost:8000/admin.

You should now be viewing your Forestry login page. Login to view your dashboard. If you don't have a user yet, create one on the Forestry Dashboard. This will allow you to login on the Gatsby site admin login page. On the left side of your dashboard you will see "Posts". If you click on it you can add a new post. When you save your post, Forestry will push the change directly to your GitHub repo.

### Making Changes

> Alright - you're all set to make changes in Netlify CMS and see them as commits in your GitHub repo!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alright - you're all set to make changes in Netlify CMS and see them as commits in your GitHub repo!
```
It's no longer Netlify CMS. Should this reference adding new files to your Gatsby repo?

```yml:title=.forestry/front_matter/blog.yml
---
label: Blog
hide_body: false
fields:
  - name: date
    type: datetime
    label: Date
    description: ""
    config:
      required: true
      date_format:
      time_format:
      display_utc: false
    default: now
  - name: title
    type: text
    label: Title
    description: ""
    config:
      required: true
```

Next, link the frontmatter collection in `.forestry/settings.yml`. This adds a template in the Forestry dashboard that allows you to add new Blog posts with the configured fields in the CMS.

```yml:title=.forestry/settings.yml
---
new_page_extension: md
auto_deploy: false
admin_path: /static/admin
webhook_url:
sections:
upload_dir: static/uploads
public_path: "/static/uploads"
front_matter_path: ''
use_front_matter_path: false
file_template: ":filename:"
build:
  preview_output_directory: public
  install_dependencies_command: npm install
  preview_docker_image: node:10
  mount_path: "/srv"
  working_dir: "/srv"
  instant_preview_command: npm run forestry:preview
sections:
- type: directory
  path: src/content/posts
  label: Posts
  create: documents
  match: "**/*"
  templates:
  - blog
```

> Because Forestry's `admin.html` file is in the `/static` directory, this page will only be available once your Gatsby site is built. Deploy your site to Netlify and you can see your Forestry dashboard.

Reviewer: Perfect! That solves it.

I'm actually wondering if we need the Netlify section? Users can accomplish the same test by running `gatsby build` and `gatsby serve` and then they have multiple options for deploying. Thoughts?

Author: Oh yes, good catch. That's way better. I was trying to figure out how to do that. I'll go ahead and change that. Also, it looks like a dependency of gatsby has a security vulnerability and is causing ci to fail. Do you know the fix for that?

Reviewer: The team is on it. Nothing to do with your code specifically. We'll be good to merge when we get these final edits in. Thanks for your diligence with the tests though!

---
title: Sourcing from Forestry
---

### Overview

> In this guide, we'll walk through setting up a site with content management using [Forestry.io](https://forestry.io/).

Reviewer 2: Please do not use "we" and instead "you" throughout the doc
https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#use-you-as-the-pronoun

#### Settings Configuration

Open `.forestry/settings.yml`. You will see the following default configuration values:

```yaml:title=.forestry/settings.yml
---
new_page_extension: md
auto_deploy: false
admin_path: /admin
webhook_url:
sections:
upload_dir: uploads
public_path: "/uploads"
front_matter_path: ""
use_front_matter_path: false
file_template: ":filename:"
build:
  preview_output_directory: public
  install_dependencies_command: npm install
  preview_docker_image: node:10
  mount_path: "/srv"
  working_dir: "/srv"
  instant_preview_command: npm run forestry:preview
```

The `new_page_extension` setting can either be `md` or `html`.

Change `upload_dir` and `public path`:

```yaml:title=.forestry/settings.yml
upload_dir: static/uploads
public_path: "/static/uploads"
```

> This sets where media is saved. For more information on Gatsby's static directory check out this [Gatsby doc guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/static-folder/). The rest of the settings can remain the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sets where media is saved. Visit Gatsby's [guide on its static folder](/docs/static-folder/) to learn more. The rest of the settings can remain the same.
```

Open `package.json` and add the following to scripts:

> ```json:title=package.json

Reviewer: If the user is starting with the Gatsby starter then most of this scripts are included. Perhaps it makes sense to just show the forestry:preview script.

},
```

For preview to work on Forestry's dashboard, port 8080 must be used and all network interfaces have to be bound to `0.0.0.0`. For more information on Forestry's previews go to the [Forestry.io docs](https://forestry.io/docs/previews/instant-previews/#adding-an-instant-preview).

_Note_: The `forestry:preview` script can be named anything, but it must match the `instant_preview_command` setting in `.forestry/settings.yml`. This sets up Forestry to run a local server so that CMS content can be previewed from the Forestry dashboard using `gatsby develop`.

### CMS Content Configuration

Now you can set up a content collection. Create the file `.forestry/front_matter/blog.yml` and paste in the following:

```yml:title=.forestry/front_matter/blog.yml
---
label: Blog
hide_body: false
fields:
  - name: date
    type: datetime
    label: Date
    description: ""
    config:
      required: true
      date_format:
      time_format:
      display_utc: false
    default: now
  - name: title
    type: text
    label: Title
    description: ""
    config:
      required: true
```

Next, link the frontmatter collection in `.forestry/settings.yml`.

> ```yml:title=.forestry/settings.yml

Reviewer: Good to have the context here, but perhaps a highlight on what is actually being added?

#### Deploying to Netlify

Now you can publish your Gatsby site straight from GitHub to Netlify from the [create site
page](https://app.netlify.com/start) - the proper build command for Gatsby will be provided
automatically, just select your GitHub repo and go with the default options. Once you connect your
GitHub repo to Netlify, deployment will begin. Note that the first deployment could take a few
minutes since a lot of things aren't cached yet. Subsequent deploys will be faster.

Once deployment is complete you'll be able to view your live site, which should look the same as it
did locally.

#### Making Changes

Alright - you're all set to make changes in Netlify CMS and see them as commits in your GitHub repo!
Open the Forestry dashboard on your deployed site at `/admin`, allow access to GitHub when the permissions
window pops up (check for blocked pop ups if you don't see it), and try creating and publishing a
new blog post. Once you've done that, you'll find a new `content/posts` directory in your GitHub repo
containing a Markdown file with your blog post content!

> Now you can do whatever you want to with the CMS content. Here is the guide for creating pages from Markdown files in Gatsby: [Adding Markdown Pages](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/adding-markdown-pages/). The docs also have a guide for doing this with MDX if you need to use JSX in your CMS content: [Writing Pages in MDX](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/mdx/writing-pages/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can do whatever you want to with the CMS content. Here is the guide for creating pages from Markdown files in Gatsby: [Adding Markdown Pages](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/). The docs also have a guide for doing this with MDX if you need to use JSX in your CMS content: [Writing Pages in MDX](/docs/mdx/writing-pages/).
```

Author: Unoutdate
